Old Guns Mod (Forge) 
 

A mod that supplies a collection of antique firearms. Heavily inspired by Ye Olde Minegunner mod from the days of Minecraft Beta v1.2.
 

 

See below for separate descriptions for recent versions. Note that newer versions may not be feature-equivalent.

 

v3.0.0
- Rewrite for minecraft 1.18.1.
- Only includes flintlock weapons, no breechloading variants.
- No cannons.
- Exotic weapons only spawn in chests. Find them and repair them!
- Patchouli book planned, but not implemented.

 

v2.0.5
- For Minecraft 1.12.2.
- No needlefire weapons.

 

 

Overview
 

Old Guns adds a colletion of mid-15th century to early 19th century black powder arms right to the front door of your dirt house:
 

Tiered system of Matchlock, Wheellock, Flintlock, Caplock, and Needlefire firearms.

Weapons such as Derringers, Pistols, Carbines, Muskets, Blunderbusses.
 
Unconventional weapons like Duckfoot Pistols, Musketoons, Nock Guns, and other variants.
 



Most firearms are reloaded from the crafting menu. They aim and fire similarly to the Minecraft bow.
 

Multi-barreled weapons allow you to spend time upfront reloading for more time shooting.
 
Some multi-barreled weapons like the Duckfoot pistol and Nock Gun fire all their bullets at once... but still require reloading single rounds at a time.
 
Breech-loading weapons allow a crossbow-esqe reload, and will consume ammo and powder straight from the players inventory.


 

The firearms are set up weight categories as well as the aforementioned tiers of mechanism tech:
 

Light firearms like pistols can be dual-wielded, drawn fast, cheap, but lack the stopping power of larger pieces.
 
Carbines and other mid-sized guns provide a good balance of draw time, cost, and power, but cannot be dual-wielded.
 
Larger firearms are devastating, but have a long draw time and high cost. Some huge firearms might slow you down when moving.
 

 


 

 

The mechanism a firearm uses determines its resiliency to the elements.
 

Matchlock weapons will not function in rain or water at all.
 
Wheellock weapons will have a difficult time firing in rain, and will not work while in water.
 
Flintlock weapons will have less trouble firing in the rain, but still will not work in water.
 
Caplock weapons will have no trouble firing in the rain, and can somewhat work while in water.
 
Needlefire weapons will fire in all conditions.
 

 

Firearms need to be taken care of! You don't want to lose a finger.
 

All weapons have a condition, which is based on their durability.
 
Weapons in fair condition or lower will have a chance to misfire.
 
Weapons in poor condition or lower will have a chance to explode in your hand.
 
Repair kits are craftable, and can be combined with a firearm in your crafting menu to repair them by 25%.
 

 

Exotic weapons are powerful, but must be found in dungeons.
 

Weapons like the Duckfoot pistol and Nock Gun cannot be crafted. They are exotic firearms.
 
Exotic weapons are found in dungeon chests, along with various types of ammunition.
 
Config options exist that can enable exotic recipes and stop them from spawning in dungeon loot.
 

 

 

Issues? Suggestions? Submit a ticket on the issue tracker

 

Need help integrating into a modpack or similar? Shoot me a message on CurseForge.

 

 

If you like Old Guns Mod and want to buy me monthly hot bean water, you can become a patron on Patreon.

 


Other Links
 

My GitHub

 

MinecraftForum Page

 

PlanetMinecraft Page

 

 

NOTE: Any downloads of this mod not found on the above links or this page are fake, and possibly host to malware! I do not authorize redistribution of this mod anywhere, unless you are making a modpack of some sort.
